---
title: "Electronic structure of the Ti4O7 Magnéli phase"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/PRB-2009
excerpt: 'In this work we used DFT to study the electronic structure
of the Ti4O7 Magneli phase.  We proposed a model to explain the unusual behaviour of the electronic 
structure of this this phase as a function of temperature.'    
date: 07/03/2008
date: 29/06/2009
venue: 'Physical Review B'
paperurl: '(https://journals.aps.org/prb/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevB.79.245133)'
citation: 'L. Liborio, G. Mallia and N. Harrison. Physical Review B, 79, 245133, 2009'
---

[Download paper here](http://leandro-liborio.github.io/files/paper3.pdf)

We have performed density-functional calculations on the Ti4O7 Magnéli phase. Our results provided a
consistent description of the high-temperature (T>298K) phase, the intermediate-temperature 120K<T<140K 
phase, and the low-temperature T<120 K phase. There is an established model for the electronic structure
of the low and intermediate temperature phases of Ti4O7, which states that Ti3+-Ti3+ pairs, bonded through
nonmagnetic metal-metal bonds, form ordered bipolarons in the low-temperature phase, and that these bipolarons
exist but are disordered in the intermediate-temperature phase. In this work we propose a different
picture for the Ti4O7 low and intermediate temperature electronic structure. We argue that, in the low temperature
phase, a combination of a strong on-site Coulomb repulsion and electron-phonon coupling results
in the localization of unpaired electrons in the Ti3+ ions forming the pairs. The electrons are accommodated in
specific t2g-like orbitals for two reasons: to minimize the direct Coulomb repulsion, and to minimize the
indirect interaction that results from lattice distortion. The localized electrons are antiferromagnetically
coupled, producing bipolarons with zero spin. This orbital ordering results in the widening of the gap between
the fully occupied and unoccupied levels. This is a bipolaronic state, but there is no bond in between the Ti3+
forming the pairs. In the intermediate phase, a subset of the bipolarons dissociate but the electrons remain
strongly localized: this state consists of a mixture of polarons and bipolarons placed in a superstructure with
long-range order. This model provides a consistent explanation of the observed electric and magnetic properties
of Ti4O7.

L. Liborio, G. Mallia and N. Harrison. Physical Review B, 79, 245133, 2009.
