---
title: "A hybrid exchange density functional study of vicinal anatase TiO2 
surfaces for applications in solar hydrogen production"
collection: publications
excerpt: 'In this work we studied the atomic scale structure of the surface of 
Anatase and its role in the photocatalytic splitting of water molecules.' 
date: 26/06/2014
permalink: /publications/PRB1-2014
venue: 'Physical Review B'
paperurl: 'https://journals.aps.org/prb/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevB.89.245309'
citation: 'Sanches F, Mallia G, Liborio L, Harrison N, Physical Review B, 89, 245309, 2014'

---

[Download paper here](http://leandro-liborio.github.io/files/paper11.pdf)

The observation of photocatalytic water splitting on the surface of anatase 
TiO2 crystals has stimulated many investigations of the underlying processes. Nevertheless, 
 a molecular-level understanding of the reaction is not available. This requires knowledge of 
 the crystal facets present, the atomistic structure of the surfaces, and thus the reaction sites involved. In this paper 
 we establish the atomistic structure of two surfaces, vicinal to the low-energy (101) surface. We compute the relative 
 stability and electronic properties of the (514) and (516) surfaces and compare these to the low-index (101), (001), 
 and (100) surfaces. The (516) surface is remarkably stable, and is predicted to contribute significantly to the surface 
 area of a crystallite in equilibrium. We simulate constant current scanning tunneling microscopy images and, by comparing
 with those measured, we conclude that a surface previously observed in a miscut single crystal is the (516) surface 
 described here. The computed stability of this surface indicates that it will be present in 
TiO2 nanostructures and the relative positions of its band edges suggests that it will play a significant role in the
water-TiO2reactions in solar water splitting.
