---
title: "Computer Simulations for Interpreting μSR Experiments"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/22-03-2018-talk
venue: "The 2018 ISIS Muon Spectroscopy Training School"
date: 22-03-2018
location: "Harwell, UK"
excerpt: 'In this work, I presented the key concepts and the main approximations 
used in our computer models, and also discussed why some of these approximations are relevant to muon experiments. 
In particular, I talked about DFT and how it can be used to study muonated 
molecular and crystalline systems.  In particular, I presented a method that we are developing 
to predict the muon stopping sites in crystalline materials.'
---

[Download presentation here](http://leandro-liborio.github.io/files/MuSr_Training_School_2018_2.pdf)

In a muon-spin relaxation experiment (μ+SR) spin-polarized positive muons are implanted in a sample to probe its local 
static and dynamic magnetic properties. μ+SR is a sensitive probe of magnetism, but one of its limitations is not knowing
the site of implantation of the muon, which prevents the use μ+SR for measuring magnetic moments, for comparing different
magnetic structures and for analysing the structures of some organic compounds.

For instance, when a muon is implanted into an organic compound such as benzene, the muon capture an electron
and form muonium, which behaves chemically just like Hydrogen and reacts with centers of unsaturation, forming a 
muoniated radical. As a result of the reaction, a double bond is broken and a single bond is formed between 
the muon and an C atom. One electron is left unpaired and is usually distributed throughout the molecule, 
interacting with the muon and other protons in the system via the hyperfine coupling interaction, which 
can be measured using the hyperfine coupling constants (hfcc). This value of the hfcc of muonium in a molecule
can, in turn, be used to identify the location site of the muon and determine the structure of the muonated radical. 
The hfcc can be measured, for instance, in an Avioded Level Crossing experiment, and also calculated using 
computer simulations.  In this talk I presented examples of the use of combined experimental and theoretical methods 
to study the structure of organic compounds.  

The molecular examples in the talk assume that the muon stopping site is known. However, in a lot of systems used in 
muSR experiments,  the muon stopping site is NOT known. Specially crystalline materials. There are some experimental
techniques that can determine the muon stopping sites, but these techniques are 
limited to certain specific cases. For instance, in some materials, the determination of the muon stopping site was 
possible by using accurate experimental studies or, in other cases, the site was determined by using a combination 
of experiments and theory. Nonetheless, the number of examples where the muon site can be determined by these
means alone is limited, and a purely theoretical approach is sometimes needed. 

In this work, I used the paramagnetic states formed by muons in crystaline silicon as an example and 
applied a combination of computational methods to estimate the muon stopping site. We use Ab Initio Random
Structure Searching (AIRSS) to predict the muon stopping sites in Silicon. AIRSS is used to find the number 
of minima in the potential energy surface of a system. 
What you can do with this methodology is to find metastable minima as well as, potentially, the global minimum. 
